docs: Onboarding Restructure (#23746)
MystenLabs/sui: docs/content/guides/developer/getting-started/configure-sui-client.mdx

---
title: Configure a Sui Client

> description: placeholder

Reviewer: reminder

keywords: [ placeholder ]
---

> The Sui client configuration specifies which network to connect to and which address will send transactions. Once the client is configured, you will typically not need to alter the configuration unless you'd like to change the network information. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Sui client configuration specifies which network to connect to and which address to send transactions. After the client is configured, you typically don't need to alter the configuration unless you want to change the network information. 
```

<Tabs className="tabsHeadingCentered--small">
<TabItem value="prereq" label="Prerequisites">

First, confirm that Sui has been installed successfully:

```
$ sui --version
```

If this command returns `sui not found`, then Sui is not installed and you must [follow the installation instructions](/guides/developer/getting-started/sui-install.mdx).

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## `sui client` 

<Tabs>

<TabItem label="macOS/Linux" value="macos-linux">

Run the Sui CLI with the command:

```
$ sui client
```

The CLI prompts you to create a new Sui address and setup a network environment configuration. By default, Sui stores this information in the `~/.sui/sui_config/client.yaml` file. You can store a `client.yaml` file in a different location, if preferred, and specify it's location with the `--client.config` flag. 

Sui stores the key for the Sui address in a separate file, `~/.sui/sui_config/sui.keystore`. Learn more about Sui addresses in [Create a Sui Address](/guides/developer/getting-started/get-address.mdx).

:::caution 

> If a previous Sui installation stored a `client.yaml` file locally, you will receive the `sui client --help` output in the console. You can delete the existing `~/.sui/sui_config/client.yaml` file if you'd like to start fresh, or you can continue using the existing configuration. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a previous Sui installation stored a `client.yaml` file locally, you receive the `sui client --help` output in the console. You can delete the existing `~/.sui/sui_config/client.yaml` file if you'd like to start fresh, or you can continue using the existing configuration. 
```

:::

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Windows" value="windows">

Run the Sui CLI with the command:

```
$ sui client
```

> The CLI prompts you to create a new Sui address and setup a network environment configuration. By default, Sui stores this information in the `%USERPROFILE%\.sui\sui_config\client.yaml` file. You can store a `client.yaml` file in a different location, if preferred, and specify it's location with the `--client.config` flag. 

Reviewer: Restates L35...ha! I see now. Maybe use a snippet so edits aren't missed? Now I see even clearer. I think there is a way to address changing values like directories in a snippet, but I don't recall how ATM. These are really close, though. Maybe just add a note or something to let the user know the directory names on windows.

Author: I made it a separate tab since we had that discussion about making sure Windows folks get a bit more love in the docs and not total focus on mac/Linux

Sui stores the key for the Sui address in a separate file, `%USERPROFILE/.sui/sui_config/sui.keystore`. Learn more about Sui addresses in [Create a Sui Address](/guides/developer/getting-started/get-address.mdx).

:::caution

If you already have a `client.yaml` file stored locally from a previous Sui installation, you will receive the `sui client --help` output in the console. You can delete the existing `%USERPROFILE%\.sui\sui_config\client.yaml` file if you'd like to start fresh, or you can continue using the existing configuration. 

:::

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Configuration options

> The first prompt will confirm if you'd like to create the `client.yaml` file, select `Y`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first prompt confirms if you want to create the `client.yaml` file, select `Y`:
```

```
Config file ["<PATH-TO-FILE>/client.yaml"] doesn't exist, do you want to connect to a Sui full node server [y/N]?
```

> The second prompt configures the network server URL that you'd like to connect to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second prompt configures the network server URL to connect to:
```

```
Sui full node server URL (Defaults to Sui Testnet if not specified) :
```

> If you specify nothing, the client uses Testnet by default. Using the Testnet is recommended for developers new to Sui that do not have a project already developed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you specify nothing, the client uses Testnet by default. Using Testnet is recommended for developers new to Sui that do not have a project already developed. 
```
Marked for consistency in same paragraph. Tried to do it the other way but couldn't.

The options are:

- `https://fullnode.testnet.sui.io:443`: The RPC URL for the Testnet network.

> - `https://fullnode.devnet.sui.io:443`: The RPC URL for the Devnet network. Devnet is not recommended for new Sui developers, as it is better suited for more advanced use cases and the network wipes data weekly as part of its update process.

Reviewer: This is how it should read IMO. "the Devnet network", "Devnet is not". It's missing a "The" to start the second sentence to matchy matchy the rest.

> - `https://fullnode.devnet.sui.io:443`: The RPC URL for the Devnet network. Devnet is not recommended for new Sui developers, as it is better suited for more advanced use cases and the network wipes data weekly as part of its update process.

Author: ```suggestion
- `https://fullnode.devnet.sui.io:443`: The RPC URL for the Devnet network. The Devnet is not recommended for new Sui developers, as it is better suited for more advanced use cases and the network wipes data weekly as part of its update process.
```

- `https://fullnode.mainnet.sui.io:443`: The RPC URL for the Mainnet network. Publishing applications to the Mainnet costs real SUI tokens. 

- `http://0.0.0.0:9000`: The RPC URL for a Localnet network, if configured. [Learn how to setup a local network](/guides/developer/sui-101/local-network.mdx).

<ImportContent source="data-wipe.mdx" mode="snippet" />

> The final prompt is to select an encryption scheme. Once you select a scheme, the client will generate a new Sui address. Press **0**, **1**, or **2** to select a key scheme:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The final prompt is to select an encryption scheme. After you select a scheme, the client generates a new Sui address. Press <kbd>0</kbd>, <kbd>1</kbd>, or <kbd>2</kbd> to select a key scheme:
```

```
Select key scheme to generate key pair (0 for ed25519, 1 for secp256k1, 2 for secp256r1):
```

<ImportContent source="crypto-schemes.mdx" mode="snippet" />

> [Learn more about Sui addresses, key generation, and recovery phrases](/guides/developer/getting-started/get-address.mdx).

Reviewer: Again, i would do just Learn more as the hyperlink. I haven't looked at the output, but seems like there'd be a lot of blue.
